 There are two main parts of the algorithm. The boundary layer meshing
 algorithm and the isotropic inviscid region meshing algorithm. The
 isotropic inviscid region is generated using the third party software,
 Triangle by Shewchuk. The different number of points does not occur
 in the boundary layer, but it can occur in the isotropic inviscid
 region. Some platforms will yield a different number of points in
 the isotropic inviscid region due to the use of different machines
 because some use 32 bit or 64 bit representations for floating point
 numbers. This causes round-off and truncation policies to affect
 this. Essentially Triangle determines if a triangle in the isotropic
 inviscid region should be split based on angle quality of a given
 triangle (measured by the circumradius-to-shortest edge ratio), and
 based on the area of the given triangle. If a triangle is too large,
 then it will be split by inserting a new point. Due to truncation and
 round off error along with different floating point representations,
 there may be a triangle on one platform that gets split, but that
 triangle on a different platform may not be split. This happens
 for instance, when the difference between a given triangle's area
 and the maximum allowable area are right on the limit of floating
 point precision. For example, a system with 64 bit floating point
 representation will split the triangle, but a system using 32 bit
 floating point representation will not split the triangle because
 the difference in triangle area and maximum area tolerance can not
 be represented using a 32 bit floating point number. Even though the
 number of points in the output may vary between different machines,
 the quality of the output remains invariant. For the different
 platforms, all of the triangles will be bound by the area constraint
 up to a precision that can be represented by the platform, and all
 of the triangles will have interior angles no less than 20.7 degrees
 (a circumradius-to-shortest-edge ratio equal to the square root of 2),
 as dictated by the algorithm for Delaunay refinement used in Triangle.
